From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 77. Recorded live
Thursday, July 28th, 2011. Support for Hanselman
is provided by Tellerik rad
control, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Ivan Tolson from mindscape
about the recently released web
workbench. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
we're talking all the way
to New Zealand to the folks
at mindscape headquarters. Specifically, we're
talking to Ivan Tolson. How
are you, sir? I'm good
to go. How are you?
Brilliant. Thanks for taking the
time. Fortunately, you didn't have
to get up in the
middle of the night to,
to chat with me today.
I appreciate that That 4:00 AM
was a bit of an
alarm call. Indeed. I blogged
last week about some really
great stuff that your company
mindscape was, was doing. You,
you put something wonderful out
into the community. You, you
gave us the web workbench
with support for less and
SAS. And, and what else
was in the web work
bench? That's coffee script is
the third one. That's in
the web workbench. Indeed, indeed.
And you gave this away
for free. Why would you
do that? Such a thing?
Well, SAS, less than COVID,
they're all open source products.
We thought know we liked
those products, the crates, those
products have given them away
for free. And we'd just
like to share the love
a little bit. We think
that it's a useful product
for people, but a lot
of the asp.net MVC community
is driven around that kind
of those free tools that
shared community. We just wanted
to help out with that
a little bit. Well, it's,
it's definitely appreciated because one
of the things that we
talk about when we try
to figure out how to
get open source driven into
the community more, when we're
sitting around at Microsoft talking
about this is how do
we get them more interested
in these kinds of tools?
I mean, I've known about
coffee script for a long
time, but people, you know,
let's just be frank.net. People
don't really like spending time
at the command line. At
least there's a lot of
people that don't, and unless
it's in visual studio, it
doesn't exist. And I think
that web work benches are
a really great way for
them to introduce themselves to
three extremely powerful tools without
having to leave their comfort
zone. I think that's a
good point. We've seen that
with our other products that
people love the visual city
integration. They've got this one
central home and they can
just plug lots of things
into it. It's a very
capable platform and they can
just add in new languages,
new productivity tools as they
see fit. Now, web workbench
is cool. Yeah, but this,
this, this podcast is not
about web workbench. Well, maybe
we'll do another one some
other day. What I think
is more interesting and a,
a kind of a more
meta issue is that the
web workbench fits together with
kind of three large chunks
and uses what we call
polyglot programming. There's there's languages
in there that aren't just,
C-sharp, there's quite a few,
I think, four or five
at last count, Just the
fall. We were looking at
C, but we decided to
get away from that where
you see sharp F sharp
Ruby and JavaScript as part
of web work bench. The
reason that we do that
is just because the well
there's, there's a number of
reasons for, for doing that.
Obviously SAS is, is written
in, in Ruby, and we
want you to host the
SAS code rather than trying
to reimplement it. And that
would just be far too
much effort. Similarly, the coffee
script compiler is written in
JavaScript. And again, we just
wanted to, to host that,
give people that sort of
guaranteed fidelity to the implementation.
So we need to be
able to host Ruby and
JavaScript source code, but we
found that those, the, the,
the Ruby and JavaScript and
rotations weren't performing well enough,
they weren't giving us enough
out enough output to do
things like syntax, highlighting the
IntelliSense in real time. So
we thought, well, we're going
to have to write our
own parser, our own little
highlighting engine for those languages.
And we actually found the
F shot. We've had some
expenses F sharp before and
found that's a really good
language for that kind of
activity. It's got a lot
of constructs that make it
very expressive, very concise for
writing in particular language oriented
subsistence. So the web work
bench pulls together. These three
languages COVID script less than
SAS that are domain specific
languages. They are languages in
themselves, languages themselves. So like
SAS, for example, if you
looked at it, you'd say,
Oh, that's CSS, but it's,
it's not it's cascading style
sheets with some additional semantics.
So it's fair to say
that it is a tone
grammar That's right. Yes. It,
it builds on CSS, but
because it adds things like
variables and functions and mix
in so that you can
reuse code. For example, you
can specify a color once
as a variable, and you
can then use that again
and again, and again, you
can apply functions to, so
for example, to lighten or
darken it. So although all
CSS is sass and all
CSS is less, they add
these additional capabilities to give
you a lot of code
reuse within your CSS or
your extended CSS. So then
when you take that plus
coffee script, which is a
domain specific language that turns
into JavaScript and less, you
get basically language support for
three new languages that compile
down into lower end languages.
Maybe you saw my talk
about JavaScript is the new
assembler. Really the point about
that is that we're upleveling
things. People aren't writing JavaScript
and trade CSS anymore. That's
right, obviously in the early
days of the web, everybody
was writing Java script, but
there's been an increasing recognition
that while the, the core
of the core of JavaScript,
there's a really great capable
language. It's not necessarily surfaced
in the most convenient way.
When you look at the,
the hoops, you have to
jump through to write modern
Java script without kind of
clashing with the global namespace
and all of those bad,
bad things that everyone warns
you about. And it begins
to drown out your, your
business logic, your, your core
interaction logic in this sea
of additional syntax that you
need to write to make
it safe and languages like
coffee script. And we're seeing
other things like closure script,
for example, those higher level
languages compiled down to Java
script, give you that safety.
They give you that expressiveness
while still because they actually
ship as JavaScript. They still
run on every web browser.
You don't need to get
plugins or anything like that
Is this similar to, to
like a pound define and
see when someone says, we'll
see as great, but I
just hit this thing. That's
not very expressive and I
can express it cleaner like
this. And here's a macro
that then expands into perhaps
of noxious looking see, but
I don't have to think
about that. Or is this
more than that? I think
this is a lot more
than that. All school see
macros are that they're not
very smart. They, you can
introduce a few simple constructs
that way, but a wholesale
change to the language. For
example, the way that coffee
script coffee cups a completely
different syntactically different language to
Java script. The, the, the,
the things that you can
write in coffee script, the
constructs that you use are
not the same as Java
script, that you write everything
in a much different way.
He's going to plead different
syntax with CSS. I'm expanding
to SAS and less. That's
perhaps a little bit more
like a macro, but again,
it's smart enough to avoid
some of the bear traps
that macros used to fall
into. But yeah, those are
kind of extensions rather than
replacements. Okay. So then if
it, if it is the
case that coffee script is
simply a totally different language,
it is not JavaScript. Then
visual studio is not going
to understand it. That's right.
That's right. And the same
thing, I guess, with SAS
and less, although visual studio
can kind of understand the
CSS bits. Once you start
seeing variables and mixings the
visual studio, CSS highlighter, won't
be able to get anywhere.
So you've included support for
an entirely new language, three
entirely new languages inside of
visual studio. And you've extended
visual studio two to allow
the support That's right. That's
what we're workbench to us.
Yes. But you said that
when it came time to
just do something as, as
quote unquote, simple as syntax
highlighting, these interpreted languages like
Java script and Ruby weren't
fast enough. So you started
thinking that we're going to
need to do this in
IRL. That's right. Although Ruby
and JavaScript are obviously very
capable languages, but as people
are actually typing, you know,
you're getting a very quick
turnaround. As people are typing
this, this fractions of a
second, between each keystroke and
people kind of want to
see that they're highlighting, being
updated pretty swiftly as they
type. And we ran into
a couple of issues. The
first thing was the performance
of trying to call out
an interpreter language on potentially
quite a large file. Another
issue we ran into is
things like error recovery. So
for example, if you've got
an error on one line,
okay, you can send, like,
if you can highlight that
line as being a syntax
error, but you kind of
want to be able to
keep going and show other
lines highlighted as best you
can. And the builtin compilers,
the SAS and coffee. So
this has an uncuffed script
compilers that they didn't need
to do that they, their
job was to compile stuff
and anything they could provide
for syntax highlighting was kind
of off to the side
for them. And that's why
we ended up rewriting the
parser in IOL, or rather
than we'd run it in
that shop, which in right
now. But it's interesting to
me that there must be
surely lectures and parsers out
there written in C sharp.
And I I'm, I'm not
someone that I know, I
know F sharp is out
there, but I'm not going
to just bust out M
sharp on a regular basis.
It's not, it would be
like me trying to speak
Spanish, right. It would be
passable. And I could maybe
order food, but it's not
my, it's not a language
I'm fluent in. When we
start thinking about polyglot programming,
it seems extremely imposing that
I would go and write
something in a language that
I'm not even close to
fluent in. Do, do you
just happen to be someone
who can speak F sharp
as well as C sharp,
or was it simply a
matter of it is so
much better for this particular
task that the call of
F sharp was too much
to resist? I guess there's
a couple of things. I've,
I've been following F sharp
for a little while now.
I wouldn't consider myself by
any means an expert in
it, but I've done a
couple of small projects in
it. So I know my
way around it well enough
that it doesn't intimidate me,
but that doesn't take an
awful long time. If chef's
not a hugely complicated language,
it's different from C-sharp. It
requests a little bit of
an adjustment of thinking, but
it's not terribly difficult to,
to get your head around.
It's not, it's not intimidating
to, to learn enough to
get stuff done. You're right.
The C-sharp has got Lexus
and passes. There's examples like
irony, which is a code
Plex project and a antler,
which is a project come
across in the Java world.
And it's very highly respected.
The thing that I found
really attractive about F sharp
was that it just makes
it more convenient to express
certain constructs. So when you,
for example, when you're building
a Plaza, one of the
things you need to express
is what they call the
abstract syntax tree, the AST,
which is kind of the
representation of your code as
a, as abstract construct is
a set of nodes. If
you like, does that make
sense to you? Well, let
me see if I, let
me see if I can
understand. So if I have
something like VAR, I equals
zero something very, very simple.
Yep. That could be expressed
as a tree. That's right.
So you break that down
to notes, representing the VAR,
which would be, say a
key word node. The, I
would be a, identify a
node. The equals might be
say an operator node and
the zero would be a
literal node. So you'd have
maybe a method node, which
would have those four nodes
as its children. Now, is
this, is this a tree
or is this an array?
Is this simply an array
of stuff? Or does it
get more complicated than that?
It's absolutely a tree because
let's take the example of
in SAS, you can nest
selectors within other selectors. So
a selector contains a set
of properties and potentially other
selectors and other mixings. So
a selector contains various things
since a selector can contain
another selector. You can start
recursing down that structure and
therefore it's gotta be a
tree. It can't just be
a flattened array. You've got
to represent it as that
kind of containment structure. Okay.
Yeah. So when I have
an AST note, an abstract
Cintas, a note of an
abstract syntax tree, why is
it easier to express something
like that in F sharp
than it is in C
sharp? Well, when you want
to express nicely, you're going
to, you're basically typically going
to have classes for each
kind of no. So you
mentioned this being a fairly
simple class, all at Rocky,
we've got maybe syntax node
as your base class, and
you have, in your example,
you'd have a keyword node.
You have identify node and
so on. It must be
derived classes of your syntax
node based class. Now in
C-sharp, when you want to
write those classes, you've got
to kind of write them
out long hand. You're going
to have to write out
your base class. And you
have to kind of write
out each of the derived
classes, each of the members
of those derived class, if
they've got individual fields represent
what the keyword is or
what the variable is and
what the list of children
is, this becomes quite laborious.
You've got to write this
all out longhand. And really
those are fairly simple data
classes in F sharp. You
can use a construct called
a discriminated union, where basically
you can create each class,
each of those derived classes
on just one line, and
you can then do pattern
matching over those derived classes
to, to walk your syntax
tree hierarchy, to perform analysis
on it, to flatten it
down to syntax highlighting and
things like that. So in
that regard, F sharp is
much Theresa. You can write
much less code to do
a lot more. I see.
So this isn't an issue
of what you are able
necessarily to do in one
language versus another. But like
an example might be to
try to say, in German,
you say shut in Florida.
And in English you say
taking pleasure at the display
at the, at the pain
of others, right? They're both
kind of, they say effectively
the same thing, but one
is clear and tourism is
a perfect word for it.
And I said it, and
now we understand, well, alternatively,
in another language, I might
need a sentence or a
paragraph or a photograph to
explain what's going on. Exactly
and different languages are good
at different things. You're right.
That all of these languages
are kind of equally capable
at some fundamental level. The,
they call it cheering equivalents
in, in the, the theory
world, but different languages are
more expressive for different things.
We're kind of cultured in
the.net world to look at
visual basic. And C sharp
is the two big, big
examples of programming languages. And
we look at those and
we say, well, actually the
constructs map, pretty much one
to one, there's not much
to choose between them trending,
whether you like keywords or
braces or whatever. And a
lot of people kind of
take away from that. Well,
all languages pretty much the
same, but when you start
looking outside that family, when
you start looking at things
like F sharp, you find
that there are languages that
can do things in different
ways, but actually turned out
to be more expressive for
some things. And that's not
to say that all Lang
that moving away from Seesaw,
visual basic is always a
good idea. It certainly isn't.
For example, there's a lot
of tooling that works really
well with C sharp and
visual. Basic. If you, you
can write, say windows forms,
applications in F sharp. If
you really want to write
out your windows form by
hand in code with all
those buttons dot add statements,
but really you'd rather use
a visual designer. And that's
where sunlight seashells, visual basic
really comes into its own
F shop's not gaining you
anything in terms of building
a windows form. Whereas with
C sharp in visual basic,
the designer gains you an
awful lot of productivity. And
that's where one, that's one
of the nice things about
the.net runtime is that interoperation
between languages. I can use
a C-sharp for my windows
forms or WPF or asp.net
applications, where I've got this
excellent visual studio tooling. And
then when I need some
more algorithmic, I can drop
down to our shop, which
makes it more, which is
more convenient, more expressive for
those kinds of areas. This
episode of Hansel minutes is
brought to you by careers.
2.0 careers, 2.0 is a
new service by our friends
at stack overflow. You're probably
all familiar with stack overflow.
The online QA resource dedicated
specifically to programmers and programming
related topics. Well, the team
at stack overflow created careers
2.0 to provide you with
access to great jobs and
introduce you to a bunch
of great companies that you
might consider working for, even
if you're not currently looking
for a job, think of
careers. 2.0 is a programmer
profile, gives you a platform
to show that you're awesome
by featuring your proudest contributions,
stack overflow, GitHub SourceForge Bitbucket,
anything programming related, you can
even add your favorite programming
books from amazon.com profiles on
careers. 2.0 are free. They're
easy to get started, especially
by importing your LinkedIn profile.
However, there's one catch profiles
on career 2.0 invite only.
They did this to keep
out the spam and have
a cry quality environment. Fortunately,
for you as a Hansel
minutes listener, I've got your
back head on over to
careers.stackoverflow.com/h M to accept your
invitation today, once again, that's
careers dot stack overflow.com/hm. I
hope you like it. Do
you think that B because.net
launched almost 10 years ago,
or actually probably almost exactly
10 years ago with these
languages that were so similar
with the kind of standard
set of languages, not functional
languages, just to kind of
imperative ifs and for loops
type stuff, and this ongoing
kind of schizophrenia, for lack
of a better word that
we have between C-sharp and,
and VB, you know, where
each is first among equals,
and there's a constant thumb
war that.net itself kind of
put itself into a painted
itself into a corner, because
there were really only all
of these languages that were
really just syntactic sugar. I
think you're absolutely right there.
Scott. In fact, when Microsoft
we're launching.net, when they're preparing
it in that they partner
with the academic community, it's
something called project seven, where
they, they asked the Dallas
people to support. I think
it was seven languages across
those things like a Pearl
implementation, early Python and implementation.
I think it was even
a scheme in plantation. There
was a, there was a
bunch of languages that they
asked people to implement for.net
to prove that multilanguage concept.
Now, unfortunately at the time,
as you identify C shop
and visual basic were the
big ones. And once we'll
specify something called the common
language specification, which was kind
of a subset, your language
had to be the, the
capability of language had to
implement in order to play
nicely with C shop and
visual basic. And I think
a lot of language implementers
in those early days got
very hung up on that
CLS side of things. They
wanted to be able to
play nicely with seashells and
visual basic. And they, I
guess, distorted their language, decides
the language implementations to make
sure that they looked like
C sharp or visual basic.
So the CLS would come
through for them. And that
was actually that turned out
to be a really bad
idea. When the, I think
it's Jim Hogan and the
started looking at the
stuff he didn't care about
the CLS. He just wants
to have a really great
implementation of bison on the.net
runtime, like he had on
the Java runtime. And so
he used, he had insight
to break free of that.
We must be like seashell
for visual basic. He decides
to be like Python, similarly
F sharp decided to be
like functional languages in particular
things like ML and low
objective camel, a bit of
hassle as well in there.
These, these language innovators decided
they weren't going to try
to just be seeking up
a visual basic with the
different kind of bracket they
were going to be like
the languages like wanted to
be. And then they'd find
that interrupt points where they
came naturally not forcing those
interrupt points into the languages.
Interesting. So they, it wasn't
that they necessarily made the
decision to, to, to not
do that to not be
saddled by the past. They
were just simply, literally not
were not held back in
any way cause they had
no context. They didn't have
visual basic three and visual
basic six and 20 years
of that kind of, of
context to even think about
That's right. Jim  came
out of the Python community.
He was interested in implementing
and creating a great implementation
of Python, not creating a
visual basic clone with Python
syntax. Very cool. So that's,
that's F sharp and you
used F sharp for parsing
within your application. Right? If
I can just button there.
I also wanted to mention,
was we talked briefly about
parcel libraries and we talked
about, we briefly mentioned that
you've got things like irony
and antler on C sharp.
I want you to give
a shout out to an
open source project called F
parsec, which is developed by
chapel Hill. Stephan told store.
It's a very unusual parcel
library. And it's actually based
on the came out of
Microsoft research about I think
eight or 10 years ago
called parsec. And it's a
really neat way of actually
implementing a, a past specification
within the F sharp language
itself. So, whereas with something
like Fs Lex or antler,
you write your grandmas in
a separate language with F
parsec. You write your grandmas
in F sharp itself. It
uses things like operator overloading
and in fixed notation, which
is the F sharp supports
and C sharp doesn't to
create a very expressive sort
of internal DSL within F
sharp, that makes it very
convenient to express grammars without
having to jump out to
separate tools. It also means
you can, for example, write
functions that return grammars. Now
that may seem really odd
thing to do. But one
of the benefits that we
saw when we started looking
at the SAS and Les
side of things is that
Sasson Les has got pretty
similar syntaxes with minor variations.
They both have the same
kind of capabilities you can
use the same kind of
AST for them, but you
need to, for example, use
different variable prefixes. The mixing
in notation is different. They
have some different built in
variables and what that meant,
what you meant. There was
a thing to write two
separate grammar files for these
two separate languages. We could
write grammar functions that took,
for example, the variable prefix
as a parameter, and returned
us a grammar for the
appropriate sub the appropriate part
of the language. And that
meant we could reuse a
whole load of that shared
grammar while still parameterizing the
bits of grammar that were
different between the two. Interesting,
are you almost, and forgive
my ignorance. It's been 20
years since I was in
college and writing anything like
this, where you almost like
removing the need for a
switch statement. It's almost like
a callback for, for a
grammar. You're saying, when I
need this go here, that
function will handle that for
you. Pretty much. Yes. It's
a little bit different in
that a, an F pass
at Parsa is kind of
an object. So it's kind
of more like you've got
a function that will return
a suitable pass. You pass
in a parameter, like the
variable prefects that return a
parser that understands that variable
prefects plus the common identifier
rule. Oh, I see. I
see. So it's a different,
it's kind of a different
way of thinking about parsing.
It's not just the right
of grammar in this tourist
format. It's also, it's right.
A grammar with this language
and use the functions that
are available in this language
and the, and the, the
things that make F sharp.
Great. So it's, it's, it's
a parser for people who
like F sharp. Exactly, exactly.
And it means you can
take advantage of all of
the logic within the F
sharp language, all the capabilities
of F sharp language, as
well as the capabilities of
the parcel library. You don't
have to choose between the,
the grammar format or the
language or, or, or hand
coding things. You can combine
the two as best you
see fit. And that really
kind of underscores the reason
that you would jump out.
It sounds to me like
F sharp was a great
reason to switch over. I
mean, F sharp itself was
a good thing to look
at, but it was the
existence of F parsec that
made you kind of sold
it. It was the existence
of, it was a combination
of things, Scott, like you
say, there are parts of
libraries in, in C sharp,
but it's the, it's the
capability of F parsec combined
with the, the very, the
very confined nature of the,
those suitable nature of F
sharp for the kind of
entities that you need to
work with in a language
Palliser. Indeed. Sometimes there's, there's,
there's open source libraries that
I want so bad. I'm
willing to go through the
hoops though. Like if I
could get like apricot, HTML,
parsing in.net, that would be
like amazing. It's like, you
know, it's the parser for
Ruby. I agree. And I
think that's, again, one of
the interesting things about the
polyglot approach is that it
opens up the possibility of
using those libraries. So for
example, if you can run
apricot under iron Ruby, then
Hey, you've got access to
that within.net, But let's get
to it. Let's get to
that point then isn't, isn't
it complicated? Isn't it interrupt?
I know that if someone
were to say, Oh, well,
I've got this great calm
object. I could go and
do interrupt. People would find
that distasteful, why is picking
these different languages and working
together with them, not distasteful
as it just because they're
all right. I, I'm not
worried to be honest, cause
I'm not worried about this
place. I'm worried about shipping,
interesting software that gets stuff
done. I don't have a
problem with using multiple languages
where that's the best scenario.
If there's a great HTML
pass out there and my
product needs HTML passing, I'd
rather use the gray HTML
parser than try to put
something together on my own.
That would do half the
job. Thank you though. Let
me push back. But that's
you, and that's why you're
on the show, but I
would, I would propose that
the listeners would think that
integrating iron Ruby or F
sharp into their application, their
dotnet application would be a
daunting task. There are certainly
bad traps, too. It certainly
pitfalls to it. Now this
is, and this politically interesting
when you start looking at
things like iron Ruby or
JavaScript F sharp of course,
was designed for the.net runtime.
So it fits very seamlessly
in there. I and Ruby
is designed to be an
implementation of the Ruby language
because it has different semantics
for some very basic things.
For example, an F sharp
string is just a dotnet
string. It's a C-sharp string.
They behave in exactly the
same way. A Ruby string
behaves in different ways. It's
got different methods, for example,
Ruby strings and mutable, which.net
strings aren't. So you may
find, you know, one of
the things that we ran
across from building web workbench
was we wanted to pass.
We wanted to pass the
SAS code into the sass
compiler as a string and
superficially, it seemed to work.
But actually when we it's,
like, in some cases we
hit problems with that because
the SAS code was taking
paths that used Ruby API
APIs, the only worked on
Ruby mutable strings. So we
had to use the iron
Ruby hosting API to make
sure we wrapped everything up
in its corresponding Ruby type
before passing over the boundary
into the SAS code. But
once we'd done that, that
Saska is of course is
just running on the.net runtime.
And we can, we, you
know, we can get objects
back from it. We can
get texts back from it.
We can do all the
things that we want to
do. The, the, the interesting
thing there though, is that
I Ruby isn't like in
complete alignment alignment, is it
though with the latest version
of, okay. That's right. So
yes, we had a couple
of problems with that as
well. So the led specify
and Ruby advertise itself as
one nine, but it doesn't
come implement the entirety of
the 1.9 specification. So there's
some cases where SAS makes
a decision about how it's
going to call one of
its internal functions based on
whether it thinks it's running
under 1.8 or 1.9. And
it saw that it was
running under what it thought
was 1.9. It called the
1.9 version, the internal function
and iron Ruby. Hadn't got
that. It only had the
1.8 version. So that goes
a few headaches too, to
figure out what was going
on there. But again, once
you've got a little bit
of familiarity with the Ruby
language, you can start to
crack these problems in Ruby.
You can modify classes after
they've been built. You can
modify classes that already exist.
You can even modify built-in
classes. So we just wrote
a little fragment of Ruby
code that added the, the
method that iron Ruby didn't
implement. We added that onto
the builtin string class, using
a little bit of Ruby
code and Hey, Presto, our
problem went away. We didn't
have to write a lot
of Ruby. It was maybe
six or seven lines, but
you're absolutely right. You do
need to know the language
in order to do that.
You need to have a
little bit of confidence with
the language, to know what
you can do, how you
can fix these problems. What
would you tell folks that
are, that are listening, that
are interested in this idea,
but still find it a
little bit scary. Where's the
best place for them to
start thinking about getting involved
in polyglot programming and knowing
when to make those transitions?
I think the best place
to start is to understand
what the different languages do,
what libraries are known for,
what are the compelling use
cases for the different languages?
So an F sharp, compelling
use case include particularly passing
pain include for example, heavy
algorithmic computation, scientific competition. For
example, F sharp units of
measure are very helpful in
scientific computation. There's a lot
of financials about their fresh.
If you're looking at particular
domains, then you may find
there are libraries or language
facilities in F sharp that
make you go, that's going
to be a handiwork. That's
going to be a handy
language for implementing that particular
module. Similarly, with Ruby, you've
identified, for example, it's a
lot of, there's a lot
of libraries out there, particularly
for working with HTML, XML,
Jason, things like that. And
you may find that those
libraries exceed the capabilities of
water available on.net and other
cases you might want to
look at that kind of
thing is for example, if
you want to integrate user
code. So by using somebody
else's lab, you're integrating third
party code, it's actually very
easy to host the dotnet
dynamic language, runtime, the runtime
that sits behind iron Ruby
and iron pipe. Then you
can host that within your
own applications and you can
actually create simple scripting facilities
very easily. So if you
want to do something like
that, that will be a
great example for where you
might look at that, but
you do need to have
that familiarity with languages do
need to maybe go out
and have a look at
Don Simon's book on F
sharp, have a look around
the, I think it's try
F sharp.net is a website
where you can actually try
to shop. There's a lovely
website called Fs, snip.net, which
is just a little handy
snippets of F sharp. Certainly
for Ruby. There's a massive
online community for that. There
are some great books out
there. There's some great tutorials
out there. There's great support
forums out there. And there's
a lot of resources for,
for learning Ruby, huge Madden
resources for learning Ruby. Fantastic.
I'll be sure to put
all of those links that
you've given us on the
show notes, so that we've
got those all in one
in one place. Are there
any other things we want
to share? Are there any
other links or PR or
open source projects that we
should share with people as
we wrap up? We certainly
should. We've mentioned, we've talked
a lot about F Shaw.
We've talked a bit about
iron Ruby, but the other
language be used in, in
web workbench was JavaScript. And
I just want to give
a bit of a shout
out to the JavaScript implementation
that we used. There's a,
I think he's actually another
Wellingtonian guy called Paul Goodbar
from Matanzas a project called
Jurassic, which is a complex
project. Now Paul's built this,
I think pretty much from
the ground up. I don't
think he's relying on the
dynamic language runtime. I think
he's built his JavaScript implementation
right from the basics. And
we looked at a couple
of JavaScript implementations. I think
we looked at three or
four and Jurassic, we found
really easy to host it
ran the coffee script compiler,
which is not a trivial
piece of JavaScript. It ran
the Costco compile the first
time out of the box.
So if people are thinking
about using JavaScript as a
scripting language in their applications,
or if they've got a
JavaScript library they'd like to
call into, then drastic is
definitely worth a look. One
little idiosyncrasy. One little difficulty
we ran into with the
JavaScript side of things is,
I guess your listeners might
not have heard, but there's
a, an environment called node
dot JS, which is pretty
widely used now in the,
I guess, in the Unix
and Linux world. And it's,
it's used by things like
coffee script. And I think
it's used by SAS as
well, actually, as soon as
typically by coffee script to
sorry, my mistake it's used
by coffee, not by SAS
to host the command line.
So if you're running the,
the coffee script command line
compiler, it will actually go
through no dot JS and
no dot yes, applies a
bunch of environmental functions that
aren't part of the Java
JavaScript language. So for example,
a require function, which goes
and loads of file for
file system loads. Another JavaScript
file off the file system
and includes that effectively in
your, in your module. Now,
obviously most JavaScript engines don't
support that because they're running
in the browser. You don't
want to give them access
to the local file system.
So it's that only node
does, but because we want
you to run the call
script compiler under Jurassic, we
kind of had to add
that capability to Jurassic. That's
a really easy, simple API
for doing that. You can,
you've got this ad global
function method where you can
implement a function in F
sharp or C-sharp, which are
allowed to talk to the
file system. And you can
expose that to jobs that
you can add that to
your Java script system. So
suddenly it can take advantage
of your F sharp or
C sharp code. If you've
got a really nice two
way interrupt going on there,
you've got your C-sharp driver
code, the visual studio integration,
which calls into Jurassic to
run the coffee script compiler.
When the coffee script compiler
requires those capabilities, that aren't
part of native JavaScript, they're
supplied by your hosting environment.
So you kind of got
a call back into C
sharp. So you've got the
two languages, again, working hand
in hand each doing what
they're capable of, what they're
best at. And it makes
for a really nice synergy.
I think that really is
the conclusion there is that
use the language that, that
helps you accomplish a problem
in a way that's natural
for that language, for that
environment. That's right. It's like,
I think the, the pollical
approach is very pragmatic approach.
You may use the word
distasteful earlier on, and I
kind of see where you're
coming from. And it's a
matter of figuring out what
is the, what are the
appropriate trade offs? Is it
worth bringing in additional language
for the capability? It will
give me which language should
I choose. When should I
use it? How much should
I put into that language?
And I think it's a
matter of, you've got Polly
pollical autism gives you more
tools in your toolbox. You
don't have to use them.
Some it's not appropriate to
use them, but when you've
got the right tool for
the right job, it's a
very pragmatic approach to take.
Definitely, definitely. Now folks can
check all this out@mindscapehq.com. They
can go up there and
they can download the web
work bench for free, as
well as check out the
other stuff. And then did
you say that you had
a special link for Hansel
minutes listeners? That's right. So
we're offering a 30% off
any mindscape products to Hanselman.
If you go to the
COVID slash, then that will
take you to our discount
page 30% off that's up
now, How'd you get that?
You got Hanselman is your
piddly link before I did
scandalous. I am fantastic. We
have the mind. Oh, brilliant.
Well, thank you so much,
Ivan, for chatting with me
today. I appreciate it. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.